{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Locate the continental margins of the U.S. east coast and the west coast of Africa. What color represents the continental shelves of these margins? Are the widths of the two continental shelves similar or different? Describe the relative proportions of the margins to one another.\
\
The color representing the continental shelves of the margins bordering the U.S. east coast and African west coast is a kind of pastel pink representing depths of -0.5 to 0 km on the given depth scale. The width of the U.S. eastern coastal margins seem to be generally wider than those of the western African coast. At the widest point, the coastal margin of the eastern U.S. looks relatively 3 times the width of the coastal margin of western Africa at it\'92s widest point shown on the map.       \
\
Identify the location of the mid-ocean ridge in the North Atlantic Ocean and describe its position in terms of specific coordinates (latitude, longitude). How does the depth of the ocean vary across this mid-ocean ridge from east to west? What other bathymetric features occur in conjunction with the mid-ocean ridge, and how do they affect its orientation?\
\
The mid-ocean ridge of the North Atlantic stretches across the section of ocean \cf4 \cb1 shown on the map \cf2 \cb3 between -50 and -25 degrees west latitudinally and 0 to 50 degrees north longitudinally. From East to west, the depth of the ridge seems to start around -4.0 km (green), and gradually elevates to -2.0 km (yellow), and continues to -0.5 km (pink). At this point, there is a thin wrinkle cutting through the pink region which seems to approach -5.0 km (light blue). After this line, the elevation seems to return to -5.0 km (pink) quickly, and then gradually depreciates once again to -2.0 km (yellow), and again finally to -4.0 km (green). The ridge seems to be wider and mostly centered between the region from 35 to 45 degrees (latitude) north and -35 to -25 degrees west (longitude) on the map, where the elevations of the coastal margins bordering the U.S. and Africa (pink) on the map are closest together.         \
\
What bathymetric feature exists on the sea floor between the continental margin and the mid-ocean ridge? Provide approximate values for the depth of this feature using the color scale provided as an attachment to these questions, and determine the approximate difference in depth between this feature and the mid-ocean ridge.\
\
The North Atlantic ocean basin floor exists between the continental margins and the mid-ocean ridge. There are also a few extremely deep pockets throughout the ocean region between the U.S. east coast and the mid-ocean ridge that seem to be roughly -7.0 km (purple). The approximate distance between these elevations is roughly 3 km.\
\
}