{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 What are the deepest features of the ocean floor in the Western North Pacific? Determine the location of this feature in terms of its configuration (i.e. its shape and extent) and position (use latitude and longitude), and describe its approximate depth using the bathymetric scale.\
\
The deepest feature of the ocean floor in the western North Pacific seems to be in the region of ocean, possibly a trench or fault line, partially bordering the coastal margin of eastern Japan stretching diagonally through the region roughly 7 to 50 degrees North and 140 to 155 degrees West on the map. According to the elevation scale provided, the line is approximately 7 km deep. \
\
Compare the features and depth of the ocean floor to the East of Japan in the Western Pacific Ocean and to the West of Japan (i.e. between Japan & Korea) in the Sea of Japan. What are the principal bathymetric features found in these ocean regions and their approximate depths of based on the color scale for depth? Are the ocean regions to the East and West of Japan similar or different?\
\
\
\
\
In the bathymetric map of the Eastern North Pacific is the continental margin on the west coast of the U.S. similar to that observed on the eastern seaboard of North America examined in the questions concerning the bathymetry of the North Atlantic Ocean? What other features can be observed extending westward from the West coast of North America? How many of these features can be observed and do they exhibit any pattern associated with their orientations or locations?\'a0\
\
No, the margin on the west coast of the U.S. seems to have a much thinner region of -0.5 km elevation (pink) than the eastern coastal margin. There also seems to be a distinct line like feature on the ocean floor that bisects part of the western coast at approximately 40 degrees north and -25 degrees west on the map. Observing the ocean south of this there seems to be five or so more of these line like features stretching horizontally. through the ocean, each spaced roughly 10 degrees latitude apart on the map.\
\
What specific bathymetric features can be observed in the western portion of this bathymetric map of the Eastern North Pacific that are not present in regions closer to the west coast of North America? Describe the setting of these features in terms of ocean depth (in meters or kilometers), noting the coordinates (latitude, longitude) of some specific examples.\'a0\
\
Observing features west of -150 degrees longitude, the ocean has several areas of elevation, ranging from about -3 to -0.5 km. The highest features, approximately -0.5 km  horizontally \cf4 \cb1 stretching \cf2 \cb3 south east from 30 to 20 degrees latitude, look like they could have once been small islands. Another feature is the deep (7 km) crooked crack spawning from the upper left corner of the map at 42 degrees North, stretching about 10 degrees east. \
\
Identify at least two different bathymetric features that can be observed in the map of the South Pacific Ocean, describing their diagnostic characteristics in terms of water depths and shape, and noting the specific locations where they occur.\'a0\
\
One feature that can be observed in the map of the South Pacific is the rather large region of ocean with a relatively high elevation of -3.5 to -2.0 km (green-yellow) vertically spanning almost all the map from -130 degrees to -90 degrees \cf4 \cb1 west. The area also seems to be sprinkled with underwater cliffs or higher areas (pink). Another feature is a very deep (7km) region of ocean that may be observed on the left side of the map, represented by the thin purple line stretching vertically from roughly -15 degrees to -35 degrees south and -178 to -177 degrees west.\
   \cf2 \cb3    \
\
}