{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15320\viewh12160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1.)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 How uniform are the rates of spreading along a specific mid-ocean ridge? How consistent are the directions of spreading along each of the six mid-ocean ridges (i.e. N. Atlantic, S. Atlantic, NE Pacific, E Pacific, S Pacific & Red Sea)?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200

\i \cf2 A strong answer will compare the values for rates (mm/yr) and direction (azimuth) of spreading for the two locations for each of the six ridges noting the similarities and/or differences in the values for each individual ridge.
\i0 \
\
1.)\
The rates of spreading and direction of motion along a specific mid-ocean ridge are relatively consistent. The relative velocity between the European and North American plates at (45.00, 330.00) is 23.63 mm/year with azimuth N276.8E, while the relative velocity along the same ridges at (20.00, 315.00) is 24.64 mm/year with azimuth N269.6E. The relative velocity between the African and South American plates at (-10.00, 345.00) is 34.76 mm/year with azimuth N258.6E, and is 34.88 mm/year with azimuth N258.6E at \cf4 \cb1 (-40.00, 345.00). The relative velocity between the North American and Pacific plates at (25.00, 250.00) is 49.12 mm/year with azimuth N308.1E and 51.01 mm/year with azimuth N300.6E at (20.00, 255.00). The relative velocity between the Nazca and Pacific plates at (-5.00, 255.00) is 139.39 mm/year with azimuth N279.5E and 154.96 mm/year with azimuth N284.1E at (-20.00, 245.00). The relative velocity between the Antarctic and Pacific plates at (-60.00, 210.00) is 72.96 mm/year with azimuth N303.3E and 82.23 mm/year with azimuth N294.5E at (-55.00, 225.00). The relative velocity between the Arabian and African plates at (18.00, 40.00) is 12.86 mm/year with azimuth N205.0E and 8.08 mm/year with azimuth N177.2E at (25.00, 35.00). The greatest variation in the rate of motion along the observed mid-ocean ridge\'92s was roughly 15 mm/year, between two points along the ridge formed by the Nazca and Pacific plates. The largest variation in the the direction of motion was roughly 28 degrees, between two points along the mid-ocean ridge formed by the Arabian and African plates. Other than those two exceptions  the observed values were fairly consistent along each mid-ocean ridge.\
\
2.) \
The greatest variation in the rate of motion along the observed mid-ocean ridge\'92s was roughly 15 mm/year, between two points along the ridge formed by the Nazca and Pacific plates. As stated in the previous answer, the values for rates of spreading, as well as the direction of movement, are fairly consistent along specific mid-ocean ridges, with the exception of minor variations (up to 15mm/year, and 30 degrees of direction). The average variations for these values however, are within 5 mm/year and degrees of direction. The rate of spreading varies greatly depending upon which region of the pacific plate is being bordered. The mid-ocean ridge along the Nazca and Pacific plates is spreading much more rapidly (145 mm/year average) than the ridge formed along the Antarctic and Pacific plates (77 mm/year average), and the ridge formed along the North American and Pacific pates (50mm/year average).\
\
3.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
\cf2 \cb3 Rank order (1 to 6 from slowest to fastest) the average spreading rates of the six different mid-ocean ridges (i.e. N Atlantic, S Atlantic, NE Pacific, E. Pacific, S. Pacific & Red Sea). Among the six ridges the NE Pacific - Gulf of California and the Red Sea are the youngest spreading centers. Do the data for these mid-ocean ridges - in comparison with the other more established ridges - aid understanding of how the rates of spreading may vary over the lifetime of an ocean basin?\cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200
\cf4 3.)\
The average rates of spreading along the observed mid-ocean ridges are, in order from slowest to fastest, are as follows. The ridge between the Arabian and African plates spreads at approximately 10.8 mm/year, the ridge between the European and North American plates spreads at approximately 24.13 mm/year, the ridge between the African and South American plates spreads at approximately 34.8 mm/year, the ridge between the North American and Pacific plates spreads at approximately 50 mm/year, the ridge between the Pacific and Antarctic plates spreads at approximately 77.5 mm/year, and the ridge between the Nazca and Pacific plates spreads at approximately 146.9 mm/year. The data for the younger spreading ridges, when compared to the older spreading ridges, suggests that the rate of spreading for the mid ocean ridges may be influenced by the age of the mid-ocean ridge itself. The younger the spreading center, the faster the rate of spreading is, suggesting that as time passes, spreading plates lose energy, and subsequently, speed as they move farther from the spreading center. \
\
4.) \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
\cf2 \cb3 How do the rates of seafloor spreading for the Atlantic Ocean compare with those in the Pacific Ocean? What factors may affect these rates of spreading at mid-ocean ridges, notably whether the crust is being conserved or subducted at sites of convergence?\
\
4.)\
The rates of seafloor spreading are significantly lower in the Atlantic Ocean than the rates within the Pacific Ocean. This possibly could be caused subduction of the Pacific plate on the West boarder, while the plates within the Atlantic are converging into one another. Another cause could be the fact that the Pacific plate is made up of almost all ocean crust, while the plates comprising the Atlantic ocean contain large continental regions, bordering the Atlantic ocean almost completely.\
 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200
\cf4 \
}