{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh12580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 What are the three principal agents that transport terrigenous sediments to the ocean? How do these different transport mechanisms influence the character and composition of the sediments formed and determine their sites of deposition?
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
1.) \
The three principal agents involved in the transport of terrigenous sediment to the ocean are rivers, ice (mostly glaciers), and wind. Rivers transport most of the ocean\'92s terrigenous sediment, though the amount and size of the sediment transported varies greatly from depending upon the actual climate, topography, and vegetative qualities of the river system. Most rivers transport medium sized and small particle sediments, and can usually transport sediments over far distances. About ten percent of the terrigenous sediment deposited in the ocean comes from ice deposits, usually glacial ice bergs. These types of sediments can be very unordered compared to the other two agents of transportation. The particle size and type of the sediments are greatly varied, and are angular in orientation. Wind transports roughly 3 percent of all the terrigenous sediments to the ocean. Particularly present in dry and arid regions where there is little vegetation to anchor the top soil, wind tends to blow large amounts of fine grained particles such as clay, sand, and silt, over very long distances, to be deposited in the ocean. Many small grain sized sediments will eventually dissolve at the ocean surface and settle to the ocean floor,  however, huge amounts of medium to large grain sized sediments are also swept down to the ocean floor by powerful turbidity currents present in deep submarine canyons in the continental rise. As sediments are deposited near the shoreline (usually by river), currents and gravity cause large amounts of sediment to be swept into submarine valleys, where they are then transported out along the sea floor.\
\
\
2.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 How does the succession of sediment layers in marine sediment cores reflect the history of sedimentation in the ocean, and how in what respects can it provide a record of past oceanographic conditions?\
\
The succession of sediment layers in marine sediment cores reflects the history of the processes that sediment under went throughout the ocean in order to be preserved. In general, Abyssal clays dominate the deeper ocean regions, then carbonate oozes are dominate in temperate, tropical climates at depths less than 5 km. Siliceous oozes dominate the highly active waters near the in the Central Pacific and north of Antarctica, and terrigenous sediments dominate the continental margins and high altitude waters with ice cover. Age and thickness of sediments generally increases away from ridges. Thus, by observing the types of sediments layered in a core, we can understand the types of processes those layers underwent, and the kind of time frame they were formed in. \
 }