{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Explain how a combination of various geological evidence from continental rock records or features contributed to the acceptance of the idea of continental drift.\
The idea of continental drift was first proposed by Alfred Wegener in the 1900s. He noticed that the continents seemed to fit together at the edge to their continental shelves, as well as the tracking of glacial deposits in the southern hemisphere. The occurrences of tillites an other glacial deposits, some as old as 300 million years, as well as matching rock structures on the complimentary coastal regions of South America and Africa and coal beds found across several continents suggest that the continents once comprised a larger super continent, known as Pangea. Evidence from the fossil record, including both triassic plant (Glossopteris) and animal (Cynogathus, Lystrosaurus) species also supports the theory of continental drift. These deposits, representing ancient glaciers and rock formations, and fossils representing creatures of the triassic period, could not have traversed the oceans, and thus provided the neccessary support the notion of an original singular continent that broke and spread apart over time. \
\
Explain how specific properties of different forms of seismic waves contribute to our understanding of the characteristics and dimensions of Earth's interior layers.\
There are generally two types of seismic waves, which are energy waves caused by earthquakes. Seismic waves can contribute to our understanding of the characteristics and dimensions of Earth and it\'92s interior layers because they can behave in different ways dependent upon what type of wave they are. P-waves are faster (shorter), and can travel through both solids and liquids, while S-waves are slower (longer), and can only traverse solids. Both kind of waves travel differently depending on the material they are penetrating. By measuring the arrival of seismic waves at stations around the globe, data collected allows us to make inferences about the structure of Earth. For instance, it can be proven that Earths outer core is liquid, since s-waves are unable to pass through it. Similarly, we know Earth has a solid inner core because some p-waves are reflected off of it. By measuring the time it takes for seismic activity to travel along different paths, the velocity and structure of Earth can be analyzed.\
      \
}